ROOST CHARACTERISTICS OF INVASIVE MYNAS IN SINGAPORE


Abstract: We identified factors affecting the selection of roost sites by invasive white-vented (Acridotheres javanicus)
and common (A. tristis) mynas in urban Singapore. In addition, we examined the effects of experimentally manipulating canopy cover and food abundance on roosting populations. Multivariate analysis, binary logistic regression,
and the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) showed that mynas selected roost trees with dense canopies that were
closer by 603.5 m to food centers and surrounded by 2.6% more vegetation than random non-roost trees. Based
on Wilks’ Lambda, we ranked canopy density as the most important variable, followed by proximity to food centers. Canopy density and food abundance manipulation experiments showed that although both resulted in a
decrease in the number of roosting mynas, canopy density reduction had a greater effect, as predicted by the roostselection model. The canopy of existing roosts can be thinned to alleviate the problem caused by roosting mynas.
Stringent control of refuse at food centers also should be implemented to make such areas less attractive to mynas.
Planting large and densely covered trees, particularly angsana (Pterocarpus indicus) and tropical apple (Eugenia
grandis), near food centers should be avoided by park and urban managers.


Mynas are invading urban areas throughout the
world, particularly in Asia and Australia (Pell and
Tidemann 1997, Feare and Craig 1998). The most
common species of mynas in Singapore are whitevented and common mynas (Ward 1968, Kang
1989). Mynas are not indigenous to Singapore.
White-vented mynas were probably introduced
there around 1924, while common mynas extended their natural range from the Malay Peninsula to
Singapore in 1936 (Gibson-Hill 1949). Mynas thrive
in areas of human habitation such as cities and gardens (King et al. 1975). In urban areas, they rely on
human refuse as a supply of food (Kang 1989).
The urbanization of the Singapore landscape has
been accompanied by a dramatic rise in myna
populations. In 2000, there were about 168,000
white-vented and 27,000 common mynas on the
main island of Singapore (H. C. Lim, National
University of Singapore, unpublished data).

Large roosting populations of white-vented and
common mynas are a source of noise pollution in
residential parts of Singapore and other parts of
Asia and Australia (MacDonald 1973, Feare and
Craig 1998). Mynas roost communally throughout the year, and these roosts can house several
hundred individuals (Gadgil and Ali 1975). Mynas
call loudly when entering and leaving their communal roosts—even at night when they are startled (C. J. Hails, Ministry of National Development, Singapore, unpublished data). This chorus
of hundreds of mynas can be loud and _ has
prompted many complaints from residents to
authorities in Singapore (S. P. Tee, National Parks
Board of Singapore |Nparks], personal communication). Their fecal droppings pollute reservoirs, walkways, cars, buildings, and pedestrians.
Other negative ecological effects stemming from
communal roosts include substantial damage to
trees from both limb-breaking and accumulation
of droppings, unpleasant odors, hazards to aircraft when roosts are near airfields, and growth
of fungi (e.g., Histoplasma capsulatum) in feces
that may cause human respiratory ailments
(Brough 1969, Vining and Weeks 1974).

Consequently, many people regard these large
communal bird roosts as a major nuisance (Garner 1978). Attempts have been made in many
parts of the world to disperse or eradicate roosts
of many bird species by shooting, poisoning, or
scaring them (e.g., with balloons), but all with
limited success (Cummings 1979, Mott 1980).
The use of short-term control measures (e.g., bioacoustics, chemical repellents, shooting) to eliminate myna roosts in Singapore has been largely
unsuccessful (Kang et al. 1990).

Many wildlife management programs have
shifted their emphasis toward ecological
approaches to vertebrate pest control, based on
understanding the ecology of the pest species,
specifically its habitat and food requirements
(Dyer and Ward 1977, Kang et al. 1990). Because
mynas have highly diverse habitat requirements,
a control program aimed at removing all resources such as food, nesting, or roosting sites
would be logistically unrealistic (Kang et al.
1990). Habitat modification is considered a more
feasible long-term approach to roost management (C. J. Hails, Ministry of National Development, Singapore, unpublished data). Once the
habitat has been modified to deter roosting
birds, maintaining the changes to the habitat
would be logistically more feasible in terms of the
personnel and equipment needed to carry out
the maintenance. Roost-site preferences of
mynas and other bird species have been studied
with the aim of manipulating roost habitats.
Structural characteristics of roost trees (e.g., tree
canopy density and girth of the trunk) that differentiated them from non-roost trees have been
identified for some species of birds such as blackbirds (Agelaius spp.; Lyon and Caccamise 1981),
turkeys (Meleagris spp.; Rumble 1992), and mynas
(Acridotheres spp.; Kang and Yeo 1993). Other factors including proximity to food sources, drinking
water, and human structures, combined with the
structural characteristics of the habitat to influence
the selection of roosting sites by birds such as
starlings (Sturnus spp.; Kuroda 1973), blackbirds
(Meanly 1965), and mynas (Kang and Yeo 1993).

The impact of the large roosting myna population on the public in Singapore has prompted the
search for a long-term management solution. Previous studies have been conducted to determine
the roost-site preference of mynas in Singapore
(Kang and Yeo 1993; C. J. Hails, Ministry of National Development, Singapore, unpublished data).
However, these studies were not comprehensive,
as they did not include other crucial factors such
as access to food resources and the percentage of
different types of land use around the roost.

The purpose of our study was to comprehensively determine the myna roost site characteristics in Singapore with the aim of formulating
sound, ecologically based management strategies
for the long-term control of roosting sites. First,
we identified the most important factors affecting
the selection of roost trees by mynas. Second, we
compared the effect of experimentally manipulating the 2 most important roost determinants
(canopy cover and food abundance) on the number of roosting mynas.

STUDY AREA

We conducted this study on the main island of
Singapore (01°37’N, 103°75’E). The island has an
area of 648 km? and a human population of 3.9
million (Singapore Department of Statistics,
http://www.singstat.gov.sg/). The annual precipitation was 2,353 mm, and average daily humidity
was 84%. The temperature ranged annually from
the average minimum of 24 °C to the average
maximum of 31 °C (Meteorological Service Singapore, http://www.gov.sg/metsin/).

METHODS
Identification of Roost-Site Characteristics

Field research for the roost-site-selection component of the study was carried out in Singapore
from 20 April to 5 June 2001. We obtained a list of
possible roost sites from Nparks, the Agri-food and
Veterinary Authority of Singapore, and personal
contacts. We defined a roost site as an area in
which a concentration of roost trees was found. We
surveyed all the potential sites from the list and
selected 30 sites where more than half of the
ground directly under the trees was covered by
bird feces and which residents confirmed were
active roost sites. We reconfirmed the sites by actual sightings during subsequent field surveys conducted between 1800 and 2000. As both species of
mynas commonly roost together (Feare and Craig
1998), we assumed that the roost-site characteristics of both species were the same, and selected
roosts that were occupied by either 1 or both
species of mynas. The total number of mynas at
each site ranged from approximately 1,000 to
17,000. At each roost site, we randomly chose 1
roost tree for measurement. A non-roost tree was
defined as a tree not used by roosting mynas. We
randomly chose 30 non-roost trees from maps
obtained from the Singapore Street Directory (Anonymous 1998). If any of these randomly chosen trees
were used by roosting mynas, then another tree
not used by roosting mynas was chosen randomly
instead for measurements. All roost and non-roost
trees were planted by Nparks in a similar fashion.

Using Wee (1989), we identified the trees to
species. We measured total tree height, clear bole
height, canopy height, canopy radius, and diameter at breast height. We estimated canopy volume using the Arbor Structure method (Melville
et al. 1999) and estimated canopy density using a
densiometer (Lemmon 1957). We estimated the
distance from the tree to the nearest food center
and railway track from the Singapore Street Directory
