DYNAMIC MODELS OF SEGREGATION

Some segregation results from the practices of organizations, some from specialized communication
systems, some from correlation with a variable that is non-random; and some results from the
interplay of individual choices. This is an abstract study of the interactive dynamics of discriminatory
individual choices. One model is a simulation in which individual members of two recognizable
groups distribute themselves in neighborhoods defined by reference to their own locations. A second
model is analytic and deals with compartmented space. A final section applies the analytics to
‘neighborhood tipping.’ The systemic effects are found to be overwhelming: there is no simple
correspondence of individual incentive to collective results. Exaggerated separation and patterning
result from the dynamics of movement. Inferences about individual motives can usually not be drawn
from aggregate patterns. Some unexpected phenomena, like density and vacancy, are generated.
A general theory of ‘tipping’ begins to emerge.

People get separated along many lines and in many ways. There is segregation by
Sex, age, income, language, religion, color, taste, comparative advantage and the
accidents of historical location. Some segregation results from the practices of
organizations; some is deliberately organized; and some results from the interplay
of individual choices that discriminate. Some of it results from specialized communication systems, like different languages. And some segregation is a corollary
of other modes of segregation: residence is correlated with job location and transport.

If blacks exclude whites from their church, or whites exclude blacks, the segregation
is organized, and it may be reciprocal or one-sided. If blacks just happen to be Baptists
and whites Methodists, the two colors will be segregated Sunday morning whether
they intend to be or not. If blacks join a black church because they are more comfortable
among their own color, and whites a white church for the same reason, undirected
individual choice can lead to segregation. And if the church bulletin board is where
people advertise rooms for rent, blacks will rent rooms from blacks and whites from
whites because of a communication system that is correlated with churches that are
correlated with color.

Some of the same mechanisms segregate college professors. The college may own
some housing, from which all but college staff are excluded. Professors choose housing
commensurate with their incomes, and houses are clustered by price while professors
